Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, known simply as Beyoncé, was born on September 4, 1981. She is an accomplished American R&B and pop singer, who is also a songwriter, record producer, actress, and dancer. Beyoncé first became known as the driving creative force and lead singer of Destiny's Child.

After successful releases with Destiny's Child, Beyoncé embarked on her solo career with her debut album, Dangerously in Love, in June 2003. This album was one of the biggest commercial successes that year, topping the charts in both the USA and the UK. Two singles from the album, "Crazy in Love" and "Baby Boy," earned her five Grammy awards in 2004. Her second album, B'Day, released worldwide on September 4, 2005, continued her success. Two singles from the album, "Déjà Vu" and "Beautiful Liar" (with Shakira), sold very well, as did another single that topped the charts in many countries, "Irreplaceable." This brought her total to seven Grammys as a solo artist out of ten total.

Her albums (Dangerously in Love, B'Day, I Am…Sasha Fierce, and 4) have given her hits worldwide, including Crazy In Love, Baby Boy, Me, Myself And I, Naughty Girl, Check On It, Déjà Vu, Irreplaceable, Beautiful Liar, If I Were A Boy, Single Ladies, Halo, Sweet Dreams and Best Thing I Never Had.

Beyoncé is married to hip-hop artist Jay-Z. She is a huge fan of Michael Jackson and credits him as her inspiration to become a performing artist.

Beyoncé Giselle Knowles is the eldest of two daughters born to Mathew Knowles and Tina Beyoncé from Houston, Texas. Her parents chose her first name as a tribute to her mother's maiden name. Her maternal grandparents, Lumis Beyincé and Agnéz Deréon (a seamstress), were French-speaking Creoles from Louisiana. Her younger sister is Solange Knowles, and she is also a cousin of Angela Beyincé, who also serves as her personal assistant and co-composer.

As a child, Beyoncé attended dance school and was the lead singer in her church choir. Her dance instructor noticed her talent and helped her star in various competitions, which she won over 30 times. She formed a quartet with childhood friends LaTavia Roberson and Kelly Rowland, and LeToya Luckett, performing in backyards and Tina Knowles' hair salon. After performing at local events, they got their break on Star Search, a television show that ran from 1983 to 1995 hosted by Ed McMahon. The girls group, then called "Girl's Tyme," lost the competition, but Beyoncé's father, Mathew Knowles, became the group's manager and eventually signed a contract with Columbia Records in 1996.

As a teenager, Beyoncé attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts in Houston where she showcased her musical talents. She later attended Alief Elsik High School, also in Houston.

Before becoming a solo artist, Beyoncé was a member of the group Destiny's Child. The group, singing a mix of R&B, soul, and pop, rose to fame in 1998 when their single "No, No, No Part 2" topped the Billboard Hot 100. Even after much turmoil and media attention when members LeToya Luckett and LaTavia Roberson left the group, Destiny's Child remained one of the most popular R&B and pop groups of the early 2000s, with several chart-topping singles and albums.

Their self-titled debut album in 1998, produced by Wyclef Jean and Jermaine Dupri, featured the hit single "No, No, No Part 2." The group's second album, The Writing's on the Wall, released in 1999, featured the hit singles "Bills, Bills, Bills" and "Say My Name." Other popular singles from this album included "Bug a Boo" and "Jumpin' Jumpin'." The album sold 8 million copies in the US and 12 million worldwide. Their next album, Survivor, was also a hit, topping the charts with singles like "Independent Women Part I" and "Bootylicious."

In 2005, Destiny's Child went on a worldwide tour called "Destiny Fulfilled … And Lovin' It," sponsored by McDonald's. The group visited 70 cities from April to September. On June 13, 2005, it was announced that the group would disband after the world tour ended. In October 2005, the group released their final album, #1's, which contained all the singles that had reached number one on the charts. It also included three new songs like "Stand up for Love." The album sold three million copies worldwide.

As a solo artist, she uses only her first name, Beyoncé. In fall 2002, Beyoncé appeared as a singer on rapper Jay-Z's hit single "'03 Bonnie & Clyde." In the spring of 2003, she sang a duet with Luther Vandross, "The Closer I Get to You," originally popularized by Roberta Flack and Donny Hathaway. In their version, the vocal parts were swapped, with Vandross taking Flack's part and Knowles taking Hathaway's:
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, also known as Beyoncé, was born on September 4, 1981. She is a renowned American R&B and pop singer, who is also an accomplished composer, record producer, actress, and dancer. Beyoncé first gained fame as the creative force and lead singer of the group Destiny's Child.